# Snap!Cloud Install Guide

## Cloning the repository

First of all, clone the Snap!Cloud repository into a local folder:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/bromagosa/snapCloud.git
```

## Prereqs

For Debian-based distros, you can skip this whole section by running the `bin/prereqs.sh` script, that will try to automatically install all dependencies. MacOS users can run `bin/setup_osx.sh`. You will still need to follow all steps after "Setting up a the database" afterwards.


### Lua 5.1

Lua is the language that powers the whole Snap!Cloud. Under Debian/Ubuntu, you can install it by means of APT:

```
# apt-get install lua5.1
```

Please note that you need version 5.1 specifically.

### OpenResty

The Snap!Cloud system is built on top of [Lapis](http://leafo.net/lapis/), a server-side Lua (or MoonScript) web framework that runs on [OpenResty](http://openresty.org), a modified version of Nginx. First of all, you need to [download](http://openresty.org/#Download) and install OpenResty by following its [official install guide](http://openresty.org/#Installation).

### Lapis and extra Lua modules

Once OpenResty is ready, installing Lapis is just a matter of asking the LuaRocks module manager to do that for you. In a Debian/Ubuntu system, you can install them via APT:

```
# apt-get install luarocks
```

Additional Lua packages you need for the Snap!Cloud to work properly are the Bcrypt module and the md5 module used for secure password encryption. You can use LuaRocks to install them all as root:

```
# luarocks install lapis
# luarocks install md5
# luarocks install xml
# luarocks install luasec
# luarocks install luacrypto
# luarocks install lua-resty-mail
```

#### Only for the MioSoft Cloud migration

When using the migrate.lua script to import collections exported from the MioSoft Cloud (previous Snap! Cloud), you'll need to also install the following Lua rock:

```
# luarocks install pgmoon

```

### Authbind

In order to serve the cloud over HTTPS, we need the cloud user to have permissions over port 443, for which we're going to be using the `authbind` utility.

```
# apt-get install authbind -y
```

### PostgreSQL

The Snap!Cloud backend uses PostreSQL for storage, so you'll need to install it too. Again, under Debian/Ubuntu this is trivial:

```
# apt-get install postgresql postgresql-client
```

## SSL
You will need SSL certificates to serve a production instance of the Snap!Cloud.

The Snap!Cloud doesn't care where you get your SSL certificates, it just needs to the know the name of the certificate and private key which should be placed in `certs/`.

Set the names by using the environment variables `SSL_CERT_FILE` and `SSL_CERT_PRIVATE_KEY`.

We are currently serving Snap!Cloud from 2 domains, so you can provide certs for multiple domains if desired.

#### Let's Encrypt certbot
One of our domains has certs generated by the Let's Encrypt certbot.

We've run the following command:

```
certbot certonly --webroot -w /home/cloud/snapCloud/html/ -d snap-cloud.cs10.org
```

This tells certbot to generate the files only and not mess with the nginx config file. It will place the certs in a folder inside `/etc/letsencrypt/`.
_You will need to copy or symlink those certs to `certs/`_.

Note: Let's Encrypt will handle auto-renewal of your certs, and you will need to make sure that new certs are also visible to OpenResty.

#### Getting a self-signed certificate
Currently, Snap!Cloud is configured to expect a certificate file, even while running locally. You can generate a self-signed cert using the `openssl` command. While self-signed certs are not useful for production sites, it will work just fine when testing things.

Heroku has a good guide on [generating self-signed certs][heroku-guide].
(The default configuration is for files named host.cert, and host.key. You can adjust the Heroku commands or rename your files afterwards.)

[heroku-guide]: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ssl-certificate-self

## Setting up the database

### Creating a user and a database

A PostgreSQL script is provided to help you get all tables set up easily. However, you will first need to add a user named `snap` to both your system and PostgreSQL and create a database named `snapcloud`, owned by that user:

```
# adduser snap
# su - postgres

$ psql

> CREATE USER snap WITH PASSWORD 'snap-cloud-password';
> ALTER ROLE snap WITH LOGIN;
> CREATE DATABASE snap_cloud OWNER snap;
```

### Building the database schema

Continue by logging in as `snap` and running the provided SQL file:

```
# su - snap
$ psql -U snap -d snap_cloud -a -f cloud.sql
```

If it all goes well, you should now have all tables properly set up. You can make sure it all worked by firing up the PostgreSQL shell and running the `\dt` command, which should print a list of all tables (`projects` and `users`).

### Lapis database configuration

The above username and password are the default values, defined in `config.lua`. You can override those values by defining environment variables, that lapis will read when the app is booted up.

In development, it's completely fine to stick with these provided values. However, on a production server you must create a much stronger password, which should be stored in an environment variable.

### Giving permissions to use HTTP(S) ports

We now need to configure authbind so that user `snap` can start a service over the HTTP and HTTPS ports. To do so, we simply need to create a file and assign its ownership to `snap`:

```
# touch /etc/authbind/byport/443
# chown snap:snap /etc/authbind/byport/443
# chmod +x /etc/authbind/byport/443
# touch /etc/authbind/byport/80
# chown snap:snap /etc/authbind/byport/80
# chmod +x /etc/authbind/byport/80
```

## Running the Snap!Cloud

If it all went well, you're now ready to fire up Lapis. While in development, just run this command under your Snap!Cloud local folder:

```
$ ./bin/start.sh
```
You will also need to start your Postgres database separately.

You can now point your browser to `https://localhost`.

## Setting up the Snap!Cloud as a system daemon

We provide a very simple init script that you can use to run the Snap!Cloud as a daemon in your server. You need to edit the `snapcloud_daemon` script so that it starts the cloud under your user first. Find the following line and replace [YOUR USERNAME] by your actual user. If you have followed this guide, it should be `snap`:


```
    start-stop-daemon --start --quiet --startas $DAEMON -u [YOUR USERNAME] -- --boot || status =$?
```

Then use `update-rc.d` to create the necessary symbolic links:

```
# update-rc.d snapcloud_daemon defaults
```

You can now start and stop the Snap!Cloud by running:

```
# /etc/init.d/snapcloud_daemon start
```

and

```
# /etc/init.d/snapcloud_daemon stop
```
